---

permalink: /doc/instal/
title: "QMRITools installation"

sidebar:
  nav: "documentation"

---

The latest release can be found
[here](https://github.com/mfroeling/QMRITools/releases){:target="_blank"}.

#Installation

Manual installation:
1.	Download the `QMRITools.zip`.
2.	Extract the `QMRITools` folder and place it in the Mathematica UserBaseDirectory &gt; Applications.

If you want to know your UserBaseDirectory run the following code in mathematica

`SystemOpen[FileNameJoin[{$UserBaseDirectory, "Applications"}]]`

Alternatively you can also use the `$BaseDirectory` if you want the tools to be availible to all users.

Automatic installation:
1.	Download the `QMRITools-x.x.x.paclet`.
2.	Install the packlet using `PacletInstall`.

`PackletInstall["download folder\\QMRIToolsx-x.x.x.paclet"]`  

Or alternatively you can directly install it from the latest release page

`PackletInstall["https://github.com/mfroeling/QMRITools/releases/download/x.x.x/QMRITools-x.x.x.paclet"]`

#External dependencies

Some functions of QMRITools call on external executables and software.
These executables need to be present in “QMRITools” and are included in
the release. If for any reason you want to use other (older/newer)
versions you can replace them but functionality is not guaranteed. For
the latest version of these tools and their user license please visit
their website.

-   [dcm2niix](https://github.com/rordenlab/dcm2niix/)
    -   dcm2niix.exe
-   [Elastix](http://elastix.isi.uu.nl/)
    -   elastix.exe
    -   transformix.exe

All functionality is tested under Windows 10 with the latest Mathematica
version. The Mathematica code is cross platform compatible with the
exception of the external tools which are compiled for each OS. The
toolbox provides compiled versions for each OS but their functionality
is not guaranteed. 

The Elastix version used is 4.9 with OpenCL support.
Additionally Elastix needs to be compiles with the PCA metrics, all DTI
related parameters and all affine related parameters.

Although cross platform compatibility is provided I have only limited
options for testing so if any issues arise please let me know.

#Loading the toolbox

The toolbox can be loaded by using
	
	<<QMRITools` 

If you want to monitor the package loading you can use: 
	
	QMRITools`$Verbose = True;
	<<QMRITools`

A list of all QMRITools packages is generated by

    QMRIToolsPackages[]

A list of all DTITools functions or functions per toolbox is generated
by

    QMRIToolsFunctions[]
    QMRIToolsFunctions["toolboxname"]

To print the documentation of all functions use

    QMRIToolsFuncPrint[]
    QMRIToolsFuncPrint["toolboxname"]

A list off all functions and their help can be found in
`All-Functions.nb`, which is alos availible as a [pdf file](https://github.com/mfroeling/QMRITools/releases/download/2.0/All-Functions.pdf).