---
layout: page
title: "QMRITools installation"
subheadline: "How to install QMRITools"
teaser: "If it doesn't work, read again."
permalink: /doc/instal/

header: no
---


### Installation

The latest release can be found [here](https://github.com/mfroeling/QMRITools/releases){:target="_blank"}.
The toolbox is best installed via the Mathematica paclet system.  

Automatic installation:
1.	Download the `QMRITools-2.3.3.paclet`.
2.	Install the paclet using `PacletInstall`.

`PacletInstall["xxx\\QMRITools-2.3.3.paclet"]`  

Or alternatively you can directly install it from the latest release page

`PacletInstall["https://github.com/mfroeling/QMRITools/releases/download/x.x.x/QMRITools-x.x.x.paclet"]`


If you prefer you can also use the manual installation:
1.	Download the `QMRITools.zip`.
2.	Extract the `QMRITools` folder and place it in the Mathematica UserBaseDirectory &gt; Applications.

If you want to know your UserBaseDirectory run the following code in Mathematica

`SystemOpen[FileNameJoin[{$UserBaseDirectory, "Applications"}]]`

Alternatively you can also use the `$BaseDirectory` if you want the tools to be available to all users.


### External dependencies

Some functions of QMRITools call on external executables and software.
These executables need to be present in “QMRITools” and are included in
the release. If for any reason you want to use other (older/newer)
versions you can replace them but functionality is not guaranteed. For
the latest version of these tools and their user license please visit
their website.

-   [dcm2niix](https://github.com/rordenlab/dcm2niix/){:target="_blank"}
    -   dcm2niix.exe
-   [Elastix](http://elastix.isi.uu.nl/){:target="_blank"}
    -   elastix.exe
    -   transformix.exe

All functionality is tested under Windows and MacOS with the latest Mathematica
version. The Mathematica code is cross platform compatible with the
exception of the external tools which are compiled for each OS. The
toolbox provides compiled versions for each OS but their functionality
is not guaranteed. 
The Elastix version used is 5.0.1 with OpenCL support.
For dcm2niix various version are included. 

Although cross platform compatibility is provided I have only limited
options for testing so if any issues arise please let me know.


### Loading the toolbox

The toolbox can be loaded by using
	
	<<QMRITools` 

If you want to monitor the package loading you can use: 
	
	QMRITools`$Verbose = True;
	<<QMRITools`

A list of all QMRITools packages is generated by

    QMRIToolsPackages[]

A list of all DTITools functions or functions per toolbox is generated
by

    QMRIToolsFunctions[]
    QMRIToolsFunctions["toolboxname"]

To print the documentation of all functions use

    QMRIToolsFuncPrint[]
    QMRIToolsFuncPrint["toolboxname"]

A list off all functions and their help can be found in
`All-Functions.nb`, which is also available as a [pdf file](https://github.com/mfroeling/QMRITools/releases/download/2.0/All-Functions.pdf).